---
event_type: PushEvent
avatar: "https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/6210171?"
user: bvanessen
date: 2022-09-21
repo_name: LLNL/lbann
html_url: https://github.com/LLNL/lbann/commit/9c98acd5481d307e42349e8719d9e6923b2c6be5
repo_url: https://github.com/LLNL/lbann
---

<a href='https://github.com/bvanessen' target='_blank'>bvanessen</a> pushed to <a href='https://github.com/LLNL/lbann' target='_blank'>LLNL/lbann</a>

<small>Adding support for the Flux batch scheduler.   (#2138)

* Adding support for the Flux batch scheduler.  Updating the Corona CI
pipeline to use flux commands.  Adding a Flux launcher script to the
PFE.

* Updating ROCM to 5.2.0

* Integrating Flux calls into the PFE launcher sequence.  Identifying
Corona as a flux-based system.

* Working through mapping slurm options to flux options.  Added
environment variables to enable running on Corona.

* Fixing flux calls in the CI catch tests.

* Switched to a newer version of OpenMPI on Corona.  Updating CI scripts.

* Added the CI spack packages to the Corona build.

* Removed OpenMPI flags that are no longer necessary with TCE OpenMPI
module.

* Exporting the spack architecture fields to the Catch2 unit tests.

* Include the CI runner ID in the spack environment name

* Include the CI_RUNNER_SHORT_TOKEN in the spack environment name

* Cleaning up gitlab and flux options

* Fixed the flux mini runs to include the -g 1 flag to enable GPUs.
Removed test and debug code.

* Tweaking the git clean flags

* Changed the git clean command to leave the spack-build-* files and directories.

* Adding Tioga as a known system.

* Adding Flux into the CI test tools script.

* Added support for reading Cray manifests to find external packages.

* Working on the externals needed for Tioga and RZVernal.

* Added back the external packages on Cray systems.

* Ensure that MPI flags are passed to the HIP compiler on Cray platforms

* Tuning the flux launcher parameters with feedback on how to get better
core alignement for MPI ranks and GPUs.

* Fixed the build script to only read the Cray manifest if one is there.
Updated the pip install to use a python3 command.

* Added the Flux equivalent to slurm --ntasks-per-node launch option.

* Updating the CI test tools launcher on Corona to use Flux.

* Updated the Corona pipeline to use the new method of finding the build
directory by directly looking up the spack hash.

* Adding binding flags for flux.

* Adding enviornmental flags to the flux launch scripts for Corona.

* Added support for using PIP to install common python packages, such as
numpy and pytest, when the base OS compiler uses the same generation
C++ std library as how LBANN will be built.

* Added a CI pipeline for Tioga based on the Corona pipeline.

* Tweaking the Tioga script to use pip to install Python packages.

* Adding the CRAY_LD_LIBRARY_PATH

* Patch around a possible type error with nditer

* Updated Tioga to use the TOSS modules.

* Running the entire set of catch tests under a flux proxy.

* Adding username to the spack repo name

* Working on the correct modules for Tioga.

* Changing the way that the batch CI jobs are launched using flux to
avoid starting a new flux instance inside of the initial allocation.

* Fixing flux options

* Fixed an error in how the CI tools selected the schedule for the new
flux systems.

* Added flux launch commands to the legacy tests.

* Updated all of the CI spack environments to use the user login name to differentiate them.

* Cleaning up the Flux CI builds.

* Added support for forwarding the Spack environment name to dependent
jobs through an artifact.

* Exporting the spack architecture information to dependent jobs.

* Added support to propagate spack environment to dependent stages for
all pipelines.

Added test code to experiment with cleanup old spack build directories
and environments.

Co-authored-by: Thomas R. Benson <benson31@llnl.gov></small>

<a href='https://github.com/LLNL/lbann/commit/9c98acd5481d307e42349e8719d9e6923b2c6be5' target='_blank'>View Commit</a>