---
event_type: ReleaseEvent
avatar: "https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1194526?"
user: cyrush
date: 2025-04-03
repo_name: LLNL/conduit
html_url: https://github.com/LLNL/conduit/releases/tag/v0.9.4
repo_url: https://github.com/LLNL/conduit
---

<a href='https://github.com/cyrush' target='_blank'>cyrush</a> released <a href='https://github.com/LLNL/conduit/releases/tag/v0.9.4' target='_blank'>v0.9.4</a>.

<small># 0.9.4 Release Highlights

(adapted from Conduit's [Changelog](https://github.com/LLNL/conduit/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md) )

Released 2025-04-03

### Added
#### Conduit
- Added `conduit::utils::memory_usage` helper.

#### Conduit
- Added an example demonstrating a strategy to use Umpire with Conduit's allocators.
- Added `conduit::utils::memory_usage` helper.
- Added extra unit tests for native signed and unsigned Node set methods.
- Added support to read a `HOST_CONFIG` environment variable to allow `pip` installs. When set, pip install will pass a host config file to set CMake options.

#### Blueprint
- Added `conduit::blueprint::<mpi>::mesh::state()`, `conduit::blueprint::<mpi>::mesh::cycle()`, and `conduit::blueprint::<mpi>::mesh::time()`, utilities for getting state information from meshes.
- Added `conduit.blueprint.mpi`, `conduit.blueprint.mpi.mesh`, and `conduit.blueprint.mpi.mesh.examples` modules to the Python interface.

#### Relay
- Added h5z-zfp compression support to relay io hdf5 methods.
- Added `conduit::relay::<mpi>::io::blueprint::generate_root_filename()`, which takes the same arguments as `save_mesh` or `write_mesh` and produces the name of the root file that would be generated by a call to `save_mesh` or `write_mesh`.
- Added `conduit::relay::mpi::memory_usage` and `conduit::relay::mpi::memory_stats` helpers.
- Added `conduit.relay.mpi.io` and `conduit.relay.mpi.io.blueprint` modules to the Python interface.
- Added `v1120` and `v1140` options to hdf5 libver settings to support 1.12 and 1.14 libver upper range.

### Changed
#### Conduit
- Updated build system to use blt 0.7.0.
- Changed Conduit memory handler callbacks from function pointers to `std::function` objects, allowing users more flexibility in dealing with different memory spaces.
- Adjusted how imported CMake target `conduit::conduit_python` locates python headers for case where Conduit's python module is installed as part of the overall conduit install.

#### Relay
- Ported relay and blueprint zfp support to use zfp 1.0 api. Added extra meta data to zfparray blueprint protocol to support roundtrip wrapping and unwrapping with zfp 1.0 api.
- Added `conduit::relay::mpi::memory_usage` and `conduit::relay::mpi::memory_stats` helpers.

### Fixed

#### Relay
- Fixed an issue with the relay hdf5 detection heuristic on windows.
- Fixed a bug with path creation logic that impact reading mesh blueprint data on windows.
</small><a href='https://github.com/LLNL/conduit/releases/tag/v0.9.4' target='_blank'>View Comment</a>